Reconocimiento de widgets automatico para aplicaciones Java/Swing en TESTAR
The Software Testing and Quality (STAQ) group of the PROS research center at the   Polytechnic University of Valencia (UPV) has developed a tool, called TESTAR   (www.testar.org) for automated testing at the user interface level (UI) . TESTAR generates and   executes test cases automatically based on a tree model automatically derived from the UI of the   application under test. This tree is built using the Accessibility API of the operating system that   helps to recognize all graphical UI elements (widgets). The tool is not capture / replay nor uses   image recognition. Companies that have deployed the tool are very positive and see it as a   paradigm shift for testing. They believe that TESTAR has the potential to solve many problems   with existing tools.   In this project the aim is to extend and implement the recognizability of widgets (graphical   elements of the User Interface) of the TESTAR tool for Java applications in Microsoft Windows   operating systems. TESTAR has a limitation regarding the recognition of widgets when the Java   technology Swing is used (it runs smoothly for AWT and SWT).   TESTAR is based on accessibility technologies that expose widgets of the software   application under test. The "lightweight" character of Swing makes that some Swing elements   are not correctly identified by accessibility technologies . To support the application   accesbilidad for Swing there is a bridge called Java Access Bridge exposes the Java   Accessibility API in a dynamic link library (DLL) for Windows:   http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/articles/javase/index-jsp-136191.html   Therefore, the work of the project will be:   Study the Java Access Bridge bridge to facilitate recognition of widgets automatically in   Java / Swing applications.   Implement a plug-in for TESTAR to enrich the tool with recognition of Swing widgets, in   addition to the current support for AWT and SWT technologies.   Assess the capacity of TESTAR in Java / Swing with two case studies with industrial   applications. (Currently EVERIS and Clearone are companies that have shown interest in   having this capacity available in TESTAR).  Document the results