Towards a compliant and secure cloud: cloud migration, swapping providers and contractual aspects
Abstract
ENGELSK: One of the issues in the cloud today is the switching between different service providers.
Cloud providers often deliver their services through specific platforms(API), with specific
tools, customized and special file formats that could cause dependencies. The cloud customer
could potentially become dependent of the cloud provider. This is called a provider
"lock-in", and could potentially hinder the migration process, the further development
of the cloud technology, and the enabling of cloud computing technology for businesses
and organizations.
We are attempting to improve security, avoid the "lock-in" problem, and ensure compliance
in cloud computing and cloud environments through the improvement of business
resilience and business continuity. Security, compliance, business continuity and
business resilience are all aspects that influence trust between actors in a cloud computing
environment. The trust issue hinders a lot of different organizations and business to
take the step into the cloud environment. This issue of trust, along others, creates uncertainty
for organizations and businesses considering moving their storage, applications
or services into the cloud. This thesis aims to solve or improve this particular issue, and
with it, enable more secure cloud computing.
The thesis results and findings aims to help organizations and businesses with the
planning process, to help keeping their data secure, and successfully migrate/swap providers.
The results and findings are concluded upon two different case studies of two
cloud customers. The findings from these case studies are presented through security
checklists, lists of SLA/Sec-SLA metrics and through a modification of a conceptual
model.
A solution or improvement of these issues will enhance trust in cloud computing and
enable more organizations and businesses to enter the cloud, utilize its efficiency and
benefit from its low cost service on demand.