QVMMA: A Short Term and Long Term Layer 3 DDoS Detector and Mitigator
QVMMA: A Short Term and Long Term Layer 3 DDoS Detector and Mitigator
{tag}                                                                           {/tag}
IJCA Proceedings on International Conference
on Communication, Computing and Virtualization 2016 by IJCA Journal
ICCCV 2016 - Number 1
Year of Publication: 2016
Authors:
Sonia Laskar
Dhirendra Mishra
{bibtex}icccv20163.bib{/bibtex}
Abstract
Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks continue to harm servers using intense wars
against popular ecommerce and content websites.  The short term and long term types of
popular DDoS attacks can be detected, prevented and mitigated using the proposed novel
Qualified Vector Match and Merge Algorithm (QVMMA) in real time.  14 feature components are
used to generate an attack signature in real time and stored in dynamically updated DDoS
Captured Attack Pattern (DCAP)30database.  It is effective in detecting new and old attacks.
Persistent DDoS attacks cause financial damage or reputation loss by loss of the
company&apos;s valuable clients.  The server&apos;s availability is heavily compromised.
1 / 5
QVMMA: A Short Term and Long Term Layer 3 DDoS Detector and Mitigator
Popular websites Github and BBC UK faced DDoS attacks in 2015.  Long term DDoS attack
directed on Github continued for over 118 hours34,35.  Short term DDoS attack experienced by
BBC36 website caused its patchy response.  The main crux of the problem is the absence of a
way to differentiate between attack records and legitimate records while the attack is occurring
in real time.  Several methods1-31,37-42,43 are listed in brief in the paper.  Post mortem
solutions are not applicable in real time.  Available real time solutions are slow.  QVMMA is an
ideal faster real time solution to prevent DDoS attacks using Statistical Feature Vector
Generation.  Matlab is used for DDoS real time simulation where the topologies (bus, star,
abilene network) are created using OMNET++33.  QVMMA generates and uses Statistical
Feature Vector for Attack Signature Generation, Matching and Identification only for qualifier
satisfied records.  The web server&apos;s log files used as input to QVMMA are according to
W3C log format standard34.  Experimentation is completed with exhaustive 336 cases.  Four
networks are tested with 5, 8, 10, 13 nodes.  Performance evaluation of QVMMA concludes
EER is 11. 8% when threshold is 1. 6.  Using model of FAR and FAR, the trendline provides
threshold at 1 with EER at 10%.  Abilene network achieves best result.  As the number of
attackers, nodes and intermediate routers increase, detection time increases.  If threshold is
increased, the accuracy reduces.  If the number of nodes increases, accuracy increases.  Thus
it is concluded that QVMMA can be used for effective layer 3 DDoS Prevention and Mitigation in
real time based on results generated in Matlab simulation.  Extended results are provided.  A
model is provided in this paper to predict the detection time for any number of attackers.  Other
models are provided based on data collected through experimentation to formulate a relation
between detection time, accuracy, Actual Attack Traffic Passed Rate (A_ATPR) with respect to
the number of attackers.  The corresponding correlation coefficient and regression coefficient
are calculated to identify and conclude the strong relationships.  This paper focuses on results
and discussion on studying the effects and trend observed based on increasing the number of
attackers during a DDoS attack.   Thus QVMMA is fast enough to be used in real time to detect
and mitigate short term or long term layer 3 Denial of Service(DoS) and more complex DDoS
attacks. 