cross browser compatibility as design issue in various websites.
Abstract  -  In this current era of information technology websites are very important means of communication. Lot of efforts is required by different institutions / organizations to portray complete information on beautifully designed websites.  Websites act as an online agent through which a user can get his work done without physically visiting the organizations.  Website design is given with a very critical look by the designer so that it can provide users with all the facilities of the concerned institutions / organizations online. To make websites behavior similar in all the different browsers employed by the different categories of the users, the responsibility of the designer and the concerned institutions / organizations increases manifold. In this research paper author developed an online tool using .NET Framework using C# to study cross browser compatibility as Design issue in various categories of the websites like Job portals, Government, educational,  Commercial and Social networking. The automated tool developed by author function on the basis of the different standards prescribed in W3C guidelines document UAAG 2.0 [7] and act like a parser and renders the complete code of the website and produces result on basis of the behavior of the websites in five most popular and widely used Browsers like parameters like Internet Explorer[7,8,9], Chrome, Safari, Fire fox. Each Browser is tested on the basis of the five parameters which are included in the parser are Blinking, Active X control, Website Resolution; image Formats, HTML Tag errors. The results  obtained after testing five different categories of websites shows that educational and social networking sites shows least compatibility in multiple browsers where as job portals, commercial and government websites shows 100% compliance to the website design standards recommended by W3C w.r.t browser compatibility of different websites on different browsing platform.    