Towards effective and intelligent multi-tenancy SaaS
Cloud computing has received significant attention recently as it is a new computing
infrastructure to enable rapid delivery of computing resources as a utility in
a dynamic, scalable, and visualized manner. SaaS (Software-as-a-Service) provide a
now paradigm in cloud computing, which goal is to provide an effective and intelligent
way to support end users on-demand requirements to computing resources,
including maturity levels of customizable, multi-tenancy and scalability. To meet
requirements of on-demand, my thesis discusses several critical research problems
and proposed solutions using real application scenarios:
Service providers receive multiple requests from customers, how to prioritize
those service requests to maximize the business values is one of the most important
issues in cloud. An innovative prioritization model is proposed, which uses different
types of information, including customer, service, environment and workflow
information to optimize the performance of the system. To provide on-demand
services, an accurate demand prediction and provision become critical for the successful
of the cloud computing. An effective demand prediction model is proposed,
and applied to a real mortgage application.
To support SaaS customization and fulfill the various functional and quality requirements
of individual tenants, a unified and innovative multi-layered customization
framework is proposed to support and manage the variability of SaaS applications.
To support scalable SaaS, a hybrid database design to support SaaS customization
with two-layer database partitioning is proposed. To support secure
SaaS, O-RBAC, an ontology based RBAC (Role based Access Control) model is
ii
used for Multi-Tenancy Architecture in clouds. To support a significant number of
tenants, an easy to use SaaS construction framework is proposed.
As a summary, this thesis discusses the most important research problems in
cloud computing, towards effective and intelligent SaaS. The research in this thesis is
critical to the development of cloud computing and provides fundamental solutions
to those problems.