Toolkits for Open Innovation The Case of Mobile Phone Games
User toolkits enable consumers to develop customized product applications
without having dedicated technical knowledge. Applied in the field
of handheld computing, toolkits are a very powerful instrument to
meet the growing demand for customized mobile applications. In this
paper, the theoretical principles and functionalities of user interaction
toolkits are translated into a technical software concept for mobile
phone games. The presented toolkit is a new Internet based application
allowing users to create a customized game on their desktop computer
and to transfer it to handheld devices. In contrast to well known
open source software development projects, no programming expertise
is required. Thus, participation of innovative users is comparatively
easy. In line with the open source concept, but as an extending feature
to the toolkit approach, the presented solution is embedded in an
online community. Thus, contributions by innovative users can be
stored in a library leading to a continuously growing information
pool of available components. Games and components can be passed
on easily between customers, facilitating the adoption of other users'
contributions as well as collaborative development between users.
The community feature of the toolkit does not only provide the common
toolset of online communities allowing for user-to-user communication,
e.g. chats and bulletin boards, or text based contributions, e.g.
recommendations, product evaluations and voting tools, but it also
enables users to exchange and jointly develop actual product prototypes.
In this regard, the presented 'toolkit for open innovation' is the
foundation of a 'value web' in a unique manner: a value web in between
consumers and users. The paper further derives economic benefits
of the developed toolkit for mobile phone game creation theoretically
and integrates them into a diversified business model. The toolkit
as a distinct performance feature has the potential to establish
a social environment for its most enthusiastic users and thereby
to strengthen user relationships with the provider and increase overall
business success.