Taking e-government to the bottom of the pyramid: dial-a-gov?
Much attention has been paid to the use of ICTs to improve the delivery 	of government services to citizens in developing countries. Government 	and donor funds have adopted two strategies in parallel: (i) the 	re-engineering and automating of government services, and (ii) the 	installation of telecenters (community Internet access centers) for 	citizens to access reengineered government "e-Gov" services.   	The model of delivering e-Gov via the Internet has major drawbacks 	as shown by survey data representing 397 million people at the Bottom 	of the Pyramid (BOP) in India, Pakistan, Philippines, Sri Lanka and 	Thailand. First, only 49% have even heard of the Internet and only 	2.6% have used it [15]. Second, it will take a lot more time and 	significant funds to roll-out enough telecenters to cover the BOP 	sufficiently. Third, most telecenters fail, while the successful 	ones are sustained by revenues from non-Internet services such as 	voice calls, fax and photocopying. But even these revenue streams 	may dwindle - according to our survey, over 40% of current BOP non-owners 	plan to purchase a phone within 2 years. They will spend their already-limited 	communications budgets on phones they own, not at a telecenter.   	By viewing the telephone as the end-device for e-service delivery, 	implementers can automate those parts of a government process that 	can deliver value quickly, through "smaller" (less complicated, therefore 	less likely to fail) applications. By not seeking to re-engineer 	entire government departments, these projects face less resistance 	to change from public-sector employees. Given that over 90% of those 	at the BOP use phones already [15], significant use is more likely 	if the necessary attention is paid to language, design and publicity.   	The Internet, accessed at a telecenter, and sophisticated e-Government 	systems will play a role in providing "higher-end" citizen services, 	for example submitting a passport application online with an uploaded 	digital photograph. But at a time when the Internet is barely reaching 	10.3 million people at the BOP in these countries, the paper argues 	that phones are the cheaper, more immediate and ubiquitous tool for 	Asian governments to inform, transact and interact with almost 400 	million of their most needy citizens.   	The paper presents an alternative, telephone-centric model for electronic 	delivery of public services citizens. It draws on research conducted 	by LIRNEasia in 2006 and previously published as well as unpublished 	e-Gov case studies.