The Important Contribution of Photovoltaics in a Rural School Electrification
Program
This paper describes Brazil's photovoltaic rural school electrification
program developed in the southeastern state of Minas Gerais, from
its demonstration phase through its current larger-scale (near 1000
systems) deployment. Based upon several successful initial demonstration
projects, which have shown PV could be both reliable and cost effective
in remote rural areas, over previous 10-year period, CEMIG-Energetic
Company of Minas Gerais (the largest utility in Brazil) has developed
a PV rural-electrification program that is driven by quality-of-life
improvement objectives for the electricity consumer. The Luz no Saber
has been specifically designed inside a larger-scale rural electrification
program (Luz para Todos - M.G.). It has been implemented in rural
areas of Minas Gerais State by CEMIG, in collaboration with state
and federal governments. The main objective has been to find an energy
delivery alternative to grid connection for dispersed rural communities
to realize the recent "Universal Attendance Law" (10438). That is,
starting July, 2002, electric utilities in Brazil have been required
to electrify the entire areas they serve. Because of solar resource
availability and geographical constraints, PV is the most important
complementary technology to satisfy the universal electrical delivery
to rural and remote communities in Minas Gerais. The technology allows
the access of lower-income people to lighting, communication, as
well as a variety of educational delivery opportunities. A major
impact has been reducing illiteracy and improving the quality of
education. The major conclusion of this 10-year CEMIG investment
is that an adequate service infrastructure is required to make projects
viable, mainly characterized by a technical network which guarantees
the system's technical performance, system design, qualified technical
support, and also avoids a lack of unreasonable and unfulfilled user
expectations. The lessons learned under several phases of the CEM-
IG's PV programmes focused on the "Luz no Saber Program" are detailed
in this paper, with the conclusion that they have helped avoid potential
failures in this sustainability model program