Efficiency of electronic public service delivery in India: public-private 	partnership as a critical factor
The dynamics of public administration in India have altered drastically 	with the introduction of e-governance as a guiding concept in the 	late 1980s. Citizens, the world over, have been demanding smaller, 	effective and responsive governments, obviously inspired by the unprecedented 	and rapid success of finance capital in the global market. Consequently, 	policy makers began the search for smaller and efficient governments. 	On an evolutionary plane, reengineering of service systems, performance 	management, transparency in government operations, down sizing or 	right sizing the government workforce, emphasis on delivery of reliable 	public services and ultimately citizen satisfaction came to be considered 	as benchmarks by most of the administrators. Quick decision-making, 	data-based planning, effective implementation through quantitative 	techniques seemed to have clinched the issue. This reformative pattern 	was no different in the Indian context, where the governments at 	the federal and state levels were in search of new techniques and 	technologies.   	Information technology has been found to be very useful in reinvigorating 	the government administrative systems by enhancing their capacity 	and efficiency. The potential and scope for application of IT in 	governing processes and transactions are enormous. E-government can 	transform traditional administrative systems through employment of 	information and communication technologies. A governance system that 	is committed to working with civil society, and by extension, private 	industry in a transparent and accountable way to reduce poverty, 	redress imbalances in access to resources, foster security and uphold 	social, economic, cultural, civil and political rights is the ultimate 	objective of e-governance theory. In practice, much depends on the 	collaboration patterns that the governments seek to establish.   	E-governance practices in India emerged and evolved mainly from native 	intuition, but under prescription for lesser and transparent government 	by international financial institutions, mainly the World Bank and 	the International Monetary Fund. However, the range of success of 	e-governance initiatives has not been uniform. The bottom-up demand 	for delivery of electronic services was bleak initially, but the 	change in public perception was for the better with the governments 	roping in private industry and service-oriented organizations gradually.   	The Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model as is construed normally 	in a world that is fast witnessing globalization of all businesses 	and administrative trends, especially in the realm of e-governance, 	involves features such lesser government investment in electronic 	delivery of public services, collaboration in conceptualizing, designing 	and implementing the e-governance projects besides increased participation 	of stakeholders -- both private and public -- to saturate the levels 	and the reach of such projects. India is no exception to the general 	rule dictating PPP mode in e-governance.   	The unprecedented success of the PPP modules in e-governance in India 	can be rightly established with two path-breaking e-governance models 	- e-Seva in the state of Andhra Pradesh and Bhoomi in Karnataka. 	These projects not only caused a jump in revenue collections of the 	two state governments, but also timely payment by the citizens. Time 	and costs for availing public services have come down drastically 	bringing in a positive change in peoples' perception of e-governance 	theory and practice. This holds equally true for both the rural and 	urban populace. The result of all these radical changes in public 	administration systems is the enhanced satisfaction level of the 	citizenry on delivery of public services and simplification of governmental 	procedures. The above mentioned e-government projects can serve as 	models for all the developing societies.