Exposure, knowledge or skill the computer literacy dilemma
There was a time when computer knowledge was so esoteric that only 	specialists needed to be educated. Only large organizations had computers 	and skills were needed only by the professional staff. Now the scene 	has changed. Computers are being used in the smallest of firms. Today 	there are millions of computers in homes, and there are offices with 	more computers and/or terminals than employees. There is some possibility 	that in the future all financial transactions and much shopping will 	be done by computer. Thus it is obvious that computer literacy is 	needed by all people. The question is not whether but rather what 	kind of education is required. There are three levels of understanding 	that may be imparted in education. One can teach a subject to the 	level of a basic understanding or general knowledge. Or one can provide 	detailed knowledge. Finally, one can develop in the student the ability 	to make skillful use of the subject area. Music appreciation, counterpoint 	and private vocal lessons illustrate the differences in one field 	of study. In curriculum development in business we tend to solve 	the question of depth of knowledge this way. All students are required 	to have a general understanding of the business core and a detailed 	knowledge of a major field. In addition, we expect that skills be 	developed in communications and quantitative methods. We carried 	over this pattern into data processing. However, we didn't know whether 	DP was a quantitative area requiring skill development or not. Thus 	we have Introduction to Data Processing courses that develop a programming 	skill in some language and others that just talk about programming 	but don't do any of it. There is substantial disagreement among educators 	as to the correct course of action. This lack of agreement, as well 	as a belated entry into DP education, has resulted in a limited and 	uneven computer education in colleges of business. Our graduates 	vary from computer illiterate to very skillful user. What to do about 	this situation is the focus of this study.