Voice Recognition for On-line Literacy: Continuous Voice Recognition 	Technology in Adult Literacy Training
This study explored whether over-the-counter continuous voice recognition 	software could be used to support the delivery of a standardized 	reading curriculum to adults with low-level literacy skills. Three 	primary questions were addressed in the study. First, how readily 	could mass-market continuous voice recognition software programs 	be adapted for use in adult literacy training? Second, what role(s) 	might the voice recognition technology play in facilitating the computer-based 	delivery of a standard text-based reading curriculum? And third, 	does the use of the voice recognition software positively affect 	the technological skills and computing comfort levels of adults with 	low-level literacy skills?   	Five adults with low-level literacy skills completed the computer-based 	curriculum, using the voice recognition software to practice and 	check their reading and writing efforts. A literacy tutor guided 	the participants through the curriculum, recorded and saved the participants' 	responses and videotaped the sessions for subsequent analysis.   	The findings reported here suggest that currently available over-the-counter 	continuous voice recognition technology, while essentially effective 	and accurate with fluent readers, is not yet ready, as a stand-alone 	system, to meet the needs of these adults with low-level literacy 	skills. The voice recognition software was most effective when it 	was used in the presence of a tutor. Having tutors provide on-going 	and immediate support to learners was a vital component of literacy 	training in this computer-based environment. In general the computer-based 	programs seemed to provide participants with a `motivational boost'. 	Specifically, the computer-based lessons helped develop participants' 	technological skills and confidence levels and promoted sustained 	focus on instructional tasks. Implications associated with these 	findings for future research with voice recognition software and 	adult literacy training are discussed.