A study of the use of agile methods within Intel
This study investigated the use of the agile methods, extreme programming
(XP) and Serum, at the Intel Network Processor Division engineering
team based in Shannon, Ireland, over a three-year-period The study
is noteworthy as it is based on real industrial software projects
involving experienced software engineers, with continuous reflection
and monitoring of the application of these approaches. It provides
evidence that agile methods are far from anti method; rather, they
require disciplined application and careful customization to the
particular needs of the development context. The study also shows
how XP and Serum can complement each other to provide a comprehensive
agile development method, with XP providing support for technical
aspects and Serum providing support for project planning and tracking.
The manner in which XP and Serum have been customized to suit the
needs of the development environment at Intel Shannon is described,
as are the lessons learned. The XP practices that were applied did
lead to significant benefits, with pair-programming leading to reductions
in code defect density, of a factor of seven, and one project actually
achieving zero defect density However, some observed limitations
of pair-programming are described. Intel Shannon also found that
not all XP practices were applicable in their context. Thus. the
study suggests that, contrary to suggestions that XP is not divisible
or individually selectable, a la carte selection and tailoring of
XP practices can work very well. In the case of Serum, some local
customization has led to a very committed adoption by developers
themselves, in contrast to many development methods whose use is
decreed mandatory by management. The success of Scrum is significant.
Projects of sLX-month and one-year duration have been delivered ahead
of schedule, which bodes well for future ability to accurately plan
development projects, a black art in software development up to now.