The Effects of Individual XP Practices on Software Development Effort
Traditional heavyweight software development methodologies are rigid,
heavily documentation oriented and process oriented. In the present
E-Business dominated environment, the above methodolo-gies are hard
to follow. In response to this, a new generation of lightweight methodologies
such as Extreme Programming (XP) has evolved which has only a few
simple rules to adopt, and insist on less documentation. XP proposes
four values, a development process and twelve practices. One of the
significant benefits among those claimed by the inventors of XP is
the reduction of effort in the software development. However, the
extent of ful-fillment of this claim remains unanswered by empirical
and quantitative evidences. Hence, the effects of XP on software
development effort are to be investigated. In this study, we devel-oped
a process simulation model to analyze the effects of individ-ual
XP practices on development effort. System dynamics based simulation,
an effective modeling technique for software devel-opment process
was chosen. This model has accounted for all the twelve practices
and processes of XP. We have also introduced a measurement scale
for measuring the level of usage of individual XP practices. The
factors that affect the cost are collected from literature and a
few XP project managers. The process model was simulated for a case
study of a typical XP project to investigate the effects of individual
XP practices on development effort by vary-ing their usage levels.
The decrease in percentage of the develop-ment effort for each XP
practice when its usage level is varied from minimum to maximum during
which all the other practices were maintained at a constant usage
level was found. The decrease in percentage of the development effort
for each XP practice when its usage level is minimum and maximum
was computed and is given below. (i) Planning game - 2.67% (ii) Small
Release - 2.67% (iii) Metaphor - 2.01% (iv) Simple design - 2.5%
(v) Con-tinuous Testing - 2.88% (vi) Refactoring -0.677% (vii) On-site
Customer - 5.48% (viii) Pair programming - 4.4% (ix) Collective Code
Ownership – 4.82% (x) Forty Hours Per Week - 2% (xi) Coding Standard
- 4.82% (xii) Continuous Integration - 1.13%. The finding of the
present study on the effects of individual XP practices depicts a
reduction in software development effort by enhancing their usage
levels.